README.md, before:

﻿
<!--#echo json="package.json" key="name" underline="=" -->
univeil
=======
<!--/#echo -->

<!--#echo json="package.json" key="description" -->
Unveil some Unicode characters that are easily overlooked.
<!--/#echo -->


Security reminder
-----------------

Although `univeil` can replace characters with a backslash notation,<br>
it is __about visibility, not security__.

It might protect your terminal emulator from that U+0090 device control,
but it won't care about your database or shell, since most quotes and
backslashes are perfectly visible characters.
(For JSON quotes, try `univeil.jsonify`.)

Albeit an XML [CharRef][xml-charref] encoder is included, it usually
won't be applied to the [predefined entities][xml-predent], as they're
perfectly visible. If you need them encoded as well, use
[xmlunidefuse](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xmlunidefuse) instead.



Usage
-----

From [test.js](test/test.js):

<!--#include file="test/test.js" start="  //#u" stop="  //#r"
  outdent="  " code="javascript" -->
<!--#verbatim lncnt="34" -->
```javascript
var univeil = require('univeil'), cl = console.log, tmp;
cl(univeil("Hello world!"));        //= `Hello world!`
cl(univeil("Hel​lo snowman! ☃"));    //= `Hel\u200Blo\u00A0snowman!\u205F☃`
cl(univeil("foo \t \r \n"));        //= `foo \u0009 \u000D \u000A`
cl(univeil("\x1B \x7F \xA0 bar"));  //= `\u001B \u007F \u00A0 bar`

tmp = '\\,\t,\r,\n,\b,\xA0,\f';
cl(univeil(tmp));       //= `\,\u0009,\u000D,\u000A,\u0008,\u00A0,\u000C`
cl(univeil(tmp, '\xA0\n'));   // whitelist
  //= `\,\u0009,\u000D,`
  //= `,\u0008, ,\u000C`
cl(univeil(tmp, { '\xA0': '<nbsp>', '\n': '<nl>', '': '<?!>' }));   // dict
  //= `\,<?!>,<?!>,<nl>,<?!>,<nbsp>,<?!>`
cl(univeil(tmp, ' \n\xA0', { '': '' }));  // whitelist + dict
  //= `\,,,`
  //= `,, ,`
cl(univeil(tmp, encodeURIComponent));     // custom translator function
  //= `\,%09,%0D,%0A,%08,%C2%A0,%0C`
cl(univeil(tmp, univeil.xmlCharRef));     // some batteries included
  //= `\,&#9;,&#13;,&#10;,&#8;,&#xA0;,&#12;`
// For more variants, see "Custom translations" below.

tmp = [0, 1, 'nbsp=\xA0', 'devCtrl=\x90', { b: true }, null, -2];
cl(univeil.jsonify(tmp));
  //= `[0,1,"nbsp=\u00A0","devCtrl=\u0090",{"b":true},null,-2]`

// Special reserved indentation "-1": spaces but no newlines.
cl(univeil.jsonify(tmp, null, -1));
  //= `[0, 1, "nbsp=\u00A0", "devCtrl=\u0090", {"b": true}, null, -2]`

tmp = univeil.funcProxy(cl, null, ['/+'], { '\xA0': '<nbsp>' }, ['+/']);
tmp('hello\xA0world');    //= `/+ hello<nbsp>world +/`
```
<!--/include-->


CLI:
```bash
$ head --lines=1 README.md | univeil
\uFEFF
```



  [xml-predent]: https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-predefined-ent
  [xml-charref]: https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#NT-CharRef



&nbsp;


License
-------
<!--#echo json="package.json" key=".license" -->
ISC
<!--/#echo -->

Commit message:

v0.1.19: [docs] Remind readers about decomposed characters.

README.md, after:

﻿
<!--#echo json="package.json" key="name" underline="=" -->
univeil
=======
<!--/#echo -->

<!--#echo json="package.json" key="description" -->
Unveil some Unicode characters that are easily overlooked.
<!--/#echo -->


Security reminder
-----------------

Although `univeil` can replace characters with a backslash notation,<br>
it is __about visibility, not security__.

It might protect your terminal emulator from that U+0090 device control,
but it won't care about your database or shell, since most quotes and
backslashes are perfectly visible characters.
(For JSON quotes, try `univeil.jsonify`.)

Albeit an XML [CharRef][xml-charref] encoder is included, it usually
won't be applied to the [predefined entities][xml-predent], as they're
perfectly visible. If you need them encoded as well, use
[xmlunidefuse](https://www.npmjs.com/package/xmlunidefuse) instead.



Unicode feature reminders
-------------------------

* To fix [decomposed vs. precomposed characters][e-is-not-e]
  (`'o\u0308'` = `'ö'` &ne; `'ö'`), use [String#normalize][mdn-normstr].



Usage
-----

From [test.js](test/test.js):

<!--#include file="test/test.js" start="  //#u" stop="  //#r"
  outdent="  " code="javascript" -->
<!--#verbatim lncnt="34" -->
```javascript
var univeil = require('univeil'), cl = console.log, tmp;
cl(univeil("Hello world!"));        //= `Hello world!`
cl(univeil("Hel​lo snowman! ☃"));    //= `Hel\u200Blo\u00A0snowman!\u205F☃`
cl(univeil("foo \t \r \n"));        //= `foo \u0009 \u000D \u000A`
cl(univeil("\x1B \x7F \xA0 bar"));  //= `\u001B \u007F \u00A0 bar`

tmp = '\\,\t,\r,\n,\b,\xA0,\f';
cl(univeil(tmp));       //= `\,\u0009,\u000D,\u000A,\u0008,\u00A0,\u000C`
cl(univeil(tmp, '\xA0\n'));   // whitelist
  //= `\,\u0009,\u000D,`
  //= `,\u0008, ,\u000C`
cl(univeil(tmp, { '\xA0': '<nbsp>', '\n': '<nl>', '': '<?!>' }));   // dict
  //= `\,<?!>,<?!>,<nl>,<?!>,<nbsp>,<?!>`
cl(univeil(tmp, ' \n\xA0', { '': '' }));  // whitelist + dict
  //= `\,,,`
  //= `,, ,`
cl(univeil(tmp, encodeURIComponent));     // custom translator function
  //= `\,%09,%0D,%0A,%08,%C2%A0,%0C`
cl(univeil(tmp, univeil.xmlCharRef));     // some batteries included
  //= `\,&#9;,&#13;,&#10;,&#8;,&#xA0;,&#12;`
// For more variants, see "Custom translations" below.

tmp = [0, 1, 'nbsp=\xA0', 'devCtrl=\x90', { b: true }, null, -2];
cl(univeil.jsonify(tmp));
  //= `[0,1,"nbsp=\u00A0","devCtrl=\u0090",{"b":true},null,-2]`

// Special reserved indentation "-1": spaces but no newlines.
cl(univeil.jsonify(tmp, null, -1));
  //= `[0, 1, "nbsp=\u00A0", "devCtrl=\u0090", {"b": true}, null, -2]`

tmp = univeil.funcProxy(cl, null, ['/+'], { '\xA0': '<nbsp>' }, ['+/']);
tmp('hello\xA0world');    //= `/+ hello<nbsp>world +/`
```
<!--/include-->


CLI:
```bash
$ head --lines=1 README.md | univeil
\uFEFF
```




<!-- Keep the named links sorted alphabetically. -->

  [e-is-not-e]: https://blog.teknkl.com/when-an-e-is-not-an-e-about-unicode-precomposed-vs-decomposed-characters-and-why-they-matter/
  [mdn-normstr]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/normalize
  [xml-charref]: https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#NT-CharRef
  [xml-predent]: https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-predefined-ent



&nbsp;


License
-------
<!--#echo json="package.json" key=".license" -->
ISC
<!--/#echo -->
